Well, we've already had three of them, but
the hooks better is mightiest of them all.
Because this one can actually replace
the first three we're just covered in most
cases not in all cases.
Now, if you've been working with react for
at least the past year,
I'm sure you've used hooks, maybe
the built in like use state, use effect,
use reducer, all these things.
But that's not the only
thing we can do with hooks,
because we can actually also easily
create our own custom hooks.
For example, this is one example
if we wanna use hover hook,
we can just create that.
So whenever like user is hovering that
specific card, we can change the state and
maybe I don't know log something
when they're hovering or
show something else I don't know.
We can do anything with hooks so
they give us like all the possibilities.
Yeah, so one thing that we could do here
or I guess that we used to do is to just.
I'm just going to pause this real quick
there is to have this all within this
listings component,
which works like this is completely fine.
But if we wanna have more components
that also uses hovering data,
it's just nicer to split this up
to create our own custom hooks, so
like more components can use this logic.
So right now, if we can just use
a create a use hover hook, and then use
this enlisting, but we can also use it
anywhere else in any other components.
I'm actually showing that here, so if we
have an image or a button that also needs
this hovering implementation,
we can just use this use hover hook again.
Because one thing to keep in mind is
that it's not like a shared state,
their way of adding
state to any component.
But it's not like they're sharing state
among the components that's using
that hook.
We'll actually talk about that
later with the provider pattern and
the compound pattern, because that is
a way to share data through hooks.
But a hook itself is not
a way to like share data,
it's just a way to add a stateful
logic to a components, let's see.
Yeah, this is just the implementation
that we kind of just covered I believe.
Yeah, well, one thing of course to keep
in mind is that whenever you're creating
a hook yourself, you have to use you use,
because these are like the rules of hooks.
So react knows that like okay,
it starts with use, this is a hook,
I have to treat it in
kind of a different way.
Because there are certain rules that
we need to use when using hooks and
react just with the way that the react
engine works and stuff like that.
Now, there are many
benefits to using hooks,
it definitely simplifies components a lot.
Because we can remove that stateful logic
from these components, which usually
cause components to be way more complex
than they should be or need to be.
And really just move that
all into their own hook, and
we can even reuse the stateful logic
which was kind of difficult to do before.
I mean, we saw that with like
the container presentational
pattern where we could wrap multiple
components in like a container components.
But now, we don't have to use it anymore,
we'll keep we can just create a hook for
that stateful logic.
I'm showing that here, so this is
using a class component which maybe
you're still using,
I mainly use functional components.
But like we had this container component
here that fetched those listings,
added that state or pass the state back
down to the presentational component in
order to render it.
With hooks, we can just simplify that
a lot, we can just create a hook,
maybe called like use listings that
contains all that stateful data.
And then that listings component can
use that hook like useless things to
eventually render that component.
So kind of the whole, the vibe to
my container presentational doesn't
necessarily exist anymore, we don't really
have a container, we just have hooks.
And since it's so easy to use
that in a functional components,
any functional component can really
be a presentational component.
So that is a great way to
write weight cleaner code,
share the stateful logic
across multiple components.
But yeah, like I said before, the rules of
hooks is just something that you need to
kind of learn, and
this is also in their documentation.
And actually it will throw an error if
you're using hooks kind of out of order,
like you cannot render a component and
then use a hook,
it needs to all be like on the top
of the component, stuff like that.
But honestly, once you know that
it's pretty fair to use, it's nice,
it's maybe something to get used to
if you haven't used it before, but
after that it's pretty nice.
Okay, so here, we actually use
the solution that we had before with
the container presentational pattern.
And like I said before, hooks can
definitely replace that whole structure.
So for this challenge, I would like you
to refactor this example that's using
this container presentational pattern,
and use a hook for that instead.
So if you need to get any inspiration,
I guess it's pretty similar
to what we have here.
So yeah,
I just create a use listings hook or
name it anything you want as
long as it starts with use.
[LAUGH]
>> Question, so what is the difference
between the use custom hook versus
creating a reusable component?
>> Well, it just simplifies like I think
if you create a reusable component,
of course,
you we can also like add state to that.
Like we did with it,
like a container component could,
I guess be like a reusable
component that contains states.
It's just harder to use that across an
application and not end up with like for
nesting issues or like prop drilling.
Like maybe you need to have many
components that need props,
you need to wrap that around
every time if that makes sense.
So hook makes is really easy to get
data in even the smallest component
which we'll also cover and
like the provider pattern,
which kind of shows or
talks about like shared states.
But like if you're just using maybe
a single state like maybe in this case
listings, it would have been fine to
use like ng container components.
But in some cases, maybe they use hover,
it would really make sense to wrap every
component that needs hover
logic within another component.
Like readability, scalability,
all those things, but
it works cuz like with
most things it works.
So it's not like don't do that, but
I think once you've used a hook for
that, yeah, you can see how much
easier it is to use and more readable.